Secrets Backend (#2739)
astronomer/docs: astro/secrets-backend.md

> ---

Author: @fritz-astronomer - since we talked through this PR earlier in the week, wanted to wait and ask for your review until we were done with any remaining docs editorial feedback. Hopefully this should be a quick look-over! This is the only page that needs your review, the others changes are from rearranging the docs.

---

> title: 'Configure an external secrets backend on Astro'

Author: @paolaperaza - this is the only file we're reviewing the content of for this PR! Just really need feedback on the restructure itself and this content, but will have follow-up PRs to address the individual procedure docs. They each need some dedicated time and we didn't want to drag the review of the restructure + overview edit out.

The plan to merge this PR is after we finish **Testing and troubleshooting locally** > **Runtime reorg** > **Secrets Backend** since we have so many docs reorganization PRs in flight. 

**Summary of changes:**

- Moved procedures into their own child pages of the new section **Secrets backend**
- configured the sidebar to take user directly to the overview page when selecting **Secrets backend** from the nav
- Shifted the scope of the overview to focus on specific benefits and considerations of adding a secrets backend of broadly discussing how Astro handles credentials for connections/variables. 
    - Specifically to emphasize that this would be best implemented as part of existing organizational strategy. Otherwise, users need to select and set up a secrets backend. 
- Moved this topic from **Manage Deployments** in the sidebar to **Administration>Deployments** because only **Workspace operators** or **Organization owners** have the correct credentials to configure the set up.

sidebar_label: 'Overview'
id: secrets-backend
description: "Learn to configure a secrets backend on Astro to store Airflow connections and variables"
---

> Apache Airflow [variables](https://docs.astronomer.io/learn/airflow-variables) and [connections](https://docs.astronomer.io/learn/connections) often contain sensitive information about your external systems that you need to keep in a _secrets backend_ tool, which stores secrets in a secure and centralized location. Unlike other management strategies, such as using Environment Variables or working with connections and variables in the Airflow UI, secrets backends require a third-party secrets manager. This means that you can use a secrets manager administered by your organization for existing security protocols, or you need to choose and set up a secrets backend. This document explains the available secrets backend integrations supported by Astro and how Airflow finds connections and variables if you use multiple strategies to manage your variables and connections.

Author: ```suggestion
Apache Airflow [variables](https://docs.astronomer.io/learn/airflow-variables) and [connections](https://docs.astronomer.io/learn/connections) often contain sensitive information about your external systems that you need to keep in a _secrets backend_ tool, which stores secrets in a secure and centralized location. Unlike other management strategies, such as using Environment Variables or working with connections and variables in the Airflow UI, secrets backends require a third-party secrets manager. This means that you can use a secrets manager administered by your organization for existing security protocols, or you need to choose and set up a secrets backend. 

This document explains the available secrets backend integrations supported by Astro and how Airflow finds connections and variables if you use multiple strategies to manage your variables and connections.
```

See [Manage connections and variables](manage-connections-variables.md) to learn more about your available management options and decide whether using a secrets backend complies with your organization's security requirements.

## Available integrations

Secrets backend integrations can be configured individually with each Astro Deployment by someone with [**Workspace Operator**](user-permissions.md#workspace-roles) permissions. 

> Using secrets to set Airflow connections requires knowledge of how to generate Airflow connection in URI or JSON format. See [Import and export Airflow connections and variables](import-export-connections-variables.md) for guidance on how to export your connections and variables based on where they are stored.

Author: ```suggestion
Using secrets to set Airflow connections requires knowledge of how to generate Airflow connections in URI or JSON format. See [Import and export Airflow connections and variables](import-export-connections-variables.md) for guidance on how to export your connections and variables based on where they are stored.
```

Astro integrates with the following secrets backend tools:

- [AWS Secrets Manager](secrets-backend/aws-secretsmanager.md)
- [AWS Systems Manager Parameter Store](secrets-backend/aws-paramstore.md)
- [Azure Key Vault](secrets-backend/azure-key-vault.md)
- [Google Cloud Secret Manager](secrets-backend/gcp-secretsmanager.md)
- [Hashicorp Vault](secrets-backend/hashicorp-vault.md)

> ## How Airflow finds an Airflow connection or variable

Author: ```suggestion
## How Airflow finds connections or variables
```

:::tip

If you need to access your secrets backend from your local Airflow, you can mount your user credentials to a local Airflow environment. While this implementation is not recommended for Astro Deployments, it lets you quickly test pipelines with data hosted in your cloud. See [Authenticate to cloud services](cli/authenticate-to-clouds.md).

:::

> If you configure a secrets backend on Astro, you can still continue to define Airflow variables and connections either [as environment variables](environment-variables.md) or in the Airflow UI. Airflow checks for the value of an Airflow variable or connection in the following order:

Author: ```suggestion
If you configure a secrets backend on Astro, you can still continue to define Airflow variables and connections as either [environment variables](environment-variables.md) or in the Airflow UI. Airflow checks for the value of an Airflow variable or connection in the following order:
```

---

> title: 'Configure an external secrets backend on Astro'

Author: ```suggestion
title: 'Configure a secrets backend '
```

sidebar_label: 'Overview'
id: secrets-backend
description: "Learn to configure a secrets backend on Astro to store Airflow connections and variables"
---

Apache Airflow [variables](https://docs.astronomer.io/learn/airflow-variables) and [connections](https://docs.astronomer.io/learn/connections) often contain sensitive information about your external systems that you need to keep in a _secrets backend_ tool, which stores secrets in a secure and centralized location. Unlike other management strategies, such as using Environment Variables or working with connections and variables in the Airflow UI, secrets backends require a third-party secrets manager. This means that you can use a secrets manager administered by your organization for existing security protocols, or you need to choose and set up a secrets backend. 

> This document explains the available secrets backend integrations supported by Astro and how Airflow finds connections and variables if you use multiple strategies to manage your variables and connections.

Author: ```suggestion
This document explains the available secrets backend integrations supported by Astro and how Airflow finds connections and variables if you use multiple strategies to manage them.
```

> See [Manage connections and variables](manage-connections-variables.md) to learn more about your available management options and decide whether using a secrets backend complies with your organization's security requirements.

Author: ```suggestion
See [Manage connections and variables](manage-connections-variables.md) to learn more about your available options and decide whether using a secrets backend complies with your organization's security requirements.
```

Integrating a secrets backend tool with Astro allows you to:

- Store Airflow variables and connections in a centralized location with secrets from other tools and systems used by your organization, such as Kubernetes secrets, SSL certificates, and more.
- Comply with internal security postures and policies that protect your organization.
- Recover in the case of an incident.
- Automatically pull Airflow variables and connections that are already stored in your secrets backend when you create a new Deployment instead of having to set them manually in the Airflow UI.

## Available integrations

Astro integrates with the following secrets backend tools:

- [Hashicorp Vault](secrets-backend/hashicorp-vault.md)
- [AWS Systems Manager Parameter Store](secrets-backend/aws-paramstore.md)
- [AWS Secrets Manager](secrets-backend/aws-secretsmanager.md)
- [Google Cloud Secret Manager](secrets-backend/gcp-secretsmanager.md)
- [Azure Key Vault](secrets-backend/azure-key-vault.md)

> Secrets backend integrations are configured individually with each Astro Deployment by a Workspace member with either Workspace Operator or Workspace Owner permissions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Secrets backend integrations can be configured individually with each Astro Deployment by someone with either Workspace Operator permissions.
```
Tricky because "Workspace Member" is also a role haha. Also removed "workspace owner" because I thought it was safe to assume that Owners know they have Operator permissions.
